Threading in Python
In this article we talk about how to use the threading module in Python.

How to create and start multiple threads
How to wait for threads to complete
How to share data between threads
How to use Locks to prevent race conditions
What is a daemon thread
How to use a Queue for thread-safe data/task processing.
Create and run threads
You create a thread with threading.Thread(). It takes two important arguments:

target: a callable object (function) for this thread to be invoked when the thread starts
args: the (function) arguments for the target function. This must be a tuple
Start a thread with thread.start()

Call thread.join() to tell the program that it should wait for this thread to complete before it continues with the rest of the code.

Share data between threads
Since threads live in the same memory space, they have access to the same (public) data. Thus, you can for example simply use a global variable to which all threads 
have 
read and write access.

Task: Create two threads, each thread should access the current database value, modify it (in this case only increase it by 1), and write the new value back into the 
database value. Each thread should do this operation 10 times.

How to use Locks
Notice that in the above example, the 2 threads should increment the value by 1, so 2 increment operations are performed. But why is the end value 1 and not 2?

Race condition
A race condition happened here. A race condition occurs when two or more threads can access shared data and they try to change it at the same time. Because the thread 
scheduling algorithm can swap between threads at any time, you don't know the order in which the threads will attempt to access the shared data. In our case, the first 
thread accesses the database_value (0) and stores it in a local copy. It then increments it (local_copy is now 1). With our time.sleep() function that just simulates 
some time consuming operations, the programm will swap to the second thread in the meantime. This will also retrieve the current database_value (still 0) and increment
the local_copy to 1. Now both threads have a local copy with value 1, so both will write the 1 into the global database_value. This is why the end value is 1 and not 2.

Avoid race conditions with Locks
A lock (also known as mutex) is a synchronization mechanism for enforcing limits on access to a resource in an environment where there are many threads of execution. 
A Lock has two states: locked and unlocked. If the state is locked, it does not allow other concurrent threads to enter this code section until the state is unlocked 
again.

Two functions are important:

lock.acquire() : This will lock the state and block
lock.release() : This will unlock the state again.
Important: You should always release the block again after it was acquired!

Using Queues in Python
Queues can be used for thread-safe/process-safe data exchanges and data processing both in a multithreaded and a multiprocessing environment.

The queue
A queue is a linear data structure that follows the First In First Out (FIFO) principle. A good example is a queue of customers that are waiting in line, where the 
customer that came first is served first.

Using a queue in multithreading
Operations with a queue are thread-safe. Important methods are:

q.get() : Remove and return the first item. By default, it blocks until the item is available.
q.put(item) : Puts element at the end of the queue. By default, it blocks until a free slot is available.
q.task_done() : Indicate that a formerly enqueued task is complete. For each get() you should call this after you are done with your task for this item.
q.join() : Blocks until all items in the queue have been gotten and proccessed (task_done() has been called for each item).
q.empty() : Return True if the queue is empty.
The following example uses a queue to exchange numbers from 0...19. Each thread invokes the worker method. Inside the infinite loop the thread is waiting until items 
are available due to the blocking q.get() call. When items are available, they are processed (i.e. just printed here), and then q.task_done() tells the queue that 
processing is complete. In the main thread, 10 daemon threads are created. This means that they automatically die when the main thread dies, and thus the worker method
and infinite loop is no longer invoked. Then the queue is filled with items and the worker method can continue with available items. At the end q.join() is necessary 
to block the main thread until all items have been gotten and proccessed.

Daemon threads
In the above example, daemon threads are used. Daemon threads are background threads that automatically die when the main program ends. This is why the infinite loops 
inside the worker methods can be exited. Without a daemon process we would have to use a signalling mechanism such as a threading.Event to stop the worker. But be 
careful with daemon processes: They are abruptly stopped and their resources (e.g. open files or database transactions) may not be released/completed properly.
